Dom Moore
CyberSecurity Kill Chain


Today’s reading touched on the topic of the CyberSecurity kill chain, the CyberSecurity kill chain is a framework that
was designed based on a military approach to how attacker formulates attacks and was applied to cybersecurity to demonstrate
the seven steps that take place surrounding a cyber attack. The seven elements that make up the kill chain are 

1. Reconnaissance
The first step of an attack is the research phase, this is where information is gatherers on targets that will be used to
prepare for the next step in the chain. There are two methods involved in this process passive and active. The passive approach
takes a hands-off stance of information gathering using information that is publicly available. The latter takes a more aggressive 
approach in which the attacker probes the network for weaknesses.
 
 2.Weaponization
This step is where the attacker has determined a weakness in the network and attempts to take advantage of the weakness and depending 
on the information recovered in phase one will determine what approach the attacker uses to move to step three. 

3. Delivery
This the phase of the attack where the weapon of choice is initiated based on the previous two-step and the payload or exploit has 
been delivered at various entry points of the system.

4. Exploitation
This is one of the most dangerous phases, the attack has been executed, and the victim is at the mercy of the attacker or the 
damaged is managed due to detection. 

5. Installation
This phase works in tangent with phase four, in this phase, the attacker is able to deliver payloads on to the systems to gain 
even more control, with the ability to gain higher levels of access, which can lead to gaining future access to systems. 

6. Command and Control
This is where the system is completely under the control of the attacker, they are considered persistent at this point, and removing
them could take a total overhaul of the network and software within the entire infrastructure. 

7. Actions on Objectives
This defines the overall cause and effects of the attack and is determined by understanding the motives behind the attack and why you
were the target, this could be for any reason, financial being the most common. 

Though defensive measure this chain could be broken, one break in the chain could prevent the attacker from moving forward through the 
next phases of the chain, the organization should access their network and business model to determine what are their security priorities
and start to implement security measures that would allow for detection or prevention of unauthorized access.  
